Chapter 1 Pierpont’s Loss 
The thought begins with a simple idea that today’s people enjoy the kind of luxury that not 
even the most influential kings/wealthy nobility could have enjoyed a century ago. 
It’s a story of a man name John Pierpont, and I am sure you haven’t heard of him. One of 
“The” wealthiest men of the late 19th and early 20th century, He sets up a bank in mid-19th 
century which today is infamously know as J.P. Morgan. 
24-year-old boy after setting up a bank (which was relatively not that tough at that time) 
meets a girl named Amelia Sturges (I Fact-checked) and fell in love with her at first sight. For 
next 3 years they had a really good time and finally decides to get marry, not so long one day 
Amelia reveals about his not so good health condition. Listening to this J.P. rushed to marry 
the girl of his dreams.  
On the wedding day, it was just impossible for Amelia to walk from her room to the 
wedding hall and here J.P. comes, He goes to bride’s room and carry her into his arms to the 
wedding hall. I mean what a romantic young man. A movie worth making. 
Soon after the marriage Amelia’s health condition is getting worsen day-by-day. Young 
Pierpont getting tense, collected all the money called best doctors of the time but the poor 
girl died anyways. 
Me and my friend make jokes about it that If you aren’t able to achieve what you want 
using money and violence than you aren’t just using it properly.     
“Money can’t get you everything” at least it’s true for our Pierpont’s life. 
By the way What she died of? -- Tuberculosis 
I mean really?  
Yes, this disease takes time to recover from but at least nobody is dying from Tuberculosis 
today. 
Yes, she died just 4 months after their marriage. 
Poor sad Pierpont from loss of his wife Immersed himself completely into the work and over 
next 3 years became one of the most trustworthy American banker of the time.  
Pierpont a church going religious person, 3 years after Amelia’s death found a girl in church 
name Fanny Tracy, Fanny wasn’t much interested in Pierpont initially but Pierpont showed 
the money and girl convinced. (Joking, actually he Put-in a lot of efforts on her) and finally 
they got married and had 4 children. 
The real story begins here, 
Chapter 2 Mr. Tesla’s War of Current  
Its Year 1882, Mr. Edison is now thinking about scaling his idea of DC motor, remember It is 
late 19th century most people do manual labour a lot which requires repetitive movement of 
the body and which now can be replaced with a thing as trivial as Motor, Trivial but 
remember it’s late 19th century. And here is Mr. Tesla isn’t very happy working with Mr. 
Edison who isn’t appreciating his idea of AC current and his Induction Motor which is 47% 
more efficient than his DC motor. 
And here is Mr. Pierpont very excited about Edison’s Idea of DC Motor and Invested a lot 
into his venture. 
Here let’s Pause for a second and try to Understand the role of Mr. Pierpont that how 
much important it is to shape the future of humanity. 
Many people ask me that Hey Modi what are you doing, and I tell them that I work in 
f
 inance and the next moment they respond with, oh! you must be doing those trading or 
Quant stuff and with few people sometimes guessing stock selection, And I am like No that’s 
not what finance is. The real Finance is very different from this Quant stuff or stock 
selection. At core I believe Finance is the decider that tells the mainstream what to do.  
People of different scale can come up with all sorts of different  Ideas but it is the 
Finance that finally decides which of them will pass through an invisible funnel on which all 
the ideas are placed and there is a filter called finance that decides which will pass through 
them and makes it into the reality while the rest just remains an idea. 
And it decides not just as a selector but also in the forms of valuations, suppose 2 
people created an EV firm which with other similar EV firm trades at 100 times the earning. 
So, it actually attracts other Budding Entrepreneurs signalling their mind that ‘you know 
what I can also make an EV firm’. And truly this 20th old-fashion steel firm’s trading at 15 
t
 imes the Earning sends a signal that no one really want to open one.  
Now where was I? Oh Yeah! 
Now Here is Mr. Pierpont helping Edison to make his idea a reality. And our hero Mr. Tesla 
getting humiliated a lot of times from Mr. Edison leaves his company and finding Investors 
for his massive idea. Now DC and AC has its own challenge, one cannot be transferred long 
distance through wire because of Resistance and other is just as risky as fire.  
It's a pure speculation and classic debate just like today’s EV and Hydrogen fuelled Vehicles, 
a lot of money at stake and nobody really knows what will happen, will they both exist or 
one will die nobody really knows. 
Back to the story, Mr. Tesla finds Investor for himself, a company named Westinghouse 
Electric Company which helped tesla by buying his patent of Induction motor at $60000 and 
promising a royalty of $2.5 for each horsepower of electricity generated. In the meantime, 
Edison trying his best to defame Tesla and his AC’s Idea, conducting experiment on animals 
and even criminals by literally applying current to them. (Yes, it’s 19th century) 
And By 1893, It was clearly visible that tesla was actually winning the race. 
Today a world without AC and Induction motor just cannot be imagined, I mean what an 
amazing idea! literally it’s shaft and core floating in air, a rotating magnetic field is created in 
the motor due to phase difference and forces its core to rotate, I mean who other than a 
genius like Nikola Tesla could have thought of that. 
There is not a very famous incident happened in 1890,Remember I told about a company 
Westinghouse who paid $60000 upfront and $2.5 for each horsepower of electricity 
generated. One day contacted Nikolas and told him that they won’t be able to fulfil their 
$2.5 promise because it can make them broke. 
Nikola said “ok you can tear up the contract”, and the person from the company asks Nikola 
why don’t you do it on your own? 
And at the very moment that man handed the contract to Nikola. Nikola takes the contract 
and tears it up into pieces.  
I mean what a man with no affection for money, just want to work on his problems. 
Chapter 3 Richest man’s daughter- 
The Dream of Current and the daughter of Capital 
The year is 1890, Mr. Tesla is looking for an Investor for his Idea of AC Motor (few days 
before Westinghouse), everyone straight at his face denies him that his idea is completely 
stupid and absurd. Tensed Nikola one day meets a random girl name Anne, and Tesla is just 
into his ideas and not really interested in speaking with random people. 
Anne says “Do you tire of thinking?” 
“I am tire of talking” he said. 
But Anne is really interested to know about this crazy genius – A man with weird hairstyle 
and ideas as utopic as fairy tale. Anne is frequently visiting Tesla’s Laboratory, listening to his 
crazy ideas, and she is completely fascinated with this man with zero social skills. And this 
cycle goes for more than 2 years. And here is Anne’s father asking her that do you like this 
man or want to marry him? 
she says “I don’t really know daddy but I am just naturally inclined towards this pigeon 
loving genius who barely talks and lives in his head”. 
And one day tesla told her “I do not think you can name many great inventions that have 
been made by married men.”  
Yes, you guessed correctly! She is the youngest daughter of Mr. Pierpont who afterward 
works extensively in philanthropy and women’s right and decides to stay unmarried for rest 
of her life. 
It’s the year of 1901; Telsa goes to visit Mr. Pierpont to pitch his idea of Wharncliffe Tower, 
(you may have more popularly heard of something called ‘Tesla coil’.) 
Tesla explains Pierpont that how he can transmit electricity through thin air using very high 
voltage and a cool tower. You no more need copper wires and all the infrastructure to light 
someone’s house. And it can actually help in sending messages from one corner of the 
planet to another. And Mr. Pierpont finds it really interesting, he thought that it could help 
him send NYSE daily quotes to Britain and can actually help him make a lot of money. And he 
actually wrote him a cheque of 100000$ and 50000$ a month later. 
Mr. genius starts working on his cool tower making the life of people living nearby a little 
adventurous because every now and then they see fire alarms goes off, Immense amount of 
lightening from the sky, transformer’s busting, some hut’s nearby even burning and after 
sometime they got a little use to of this. But the actual cost of the project came out to be 
much more than what Tesla expected and he simply ran out of money. 
Tesla wrote to Mr. Pierpont in 1903 asking for some more money but his letter was never 
replied. 
Chapter 4 The saddest Epilogue ever 
After receiving no reply of his letter and from his other formal channels, Tesla one day heard 
of a place where J.P. Morgan use to go to play tennis. 
Here Is J.P. Morgan playing tennis with his daughter and her friends. And here is tesla 
walking around and notices some people on the other side of bush playing, suddenly realises 
that its J.P. Morgan. He enters inside the bush and stops by the fence between the court and 
the bush. Tesla waited politely until he notices him, 
“Mr. Morgan, forgive my intrusion. But the work — the tower — it’s nearly ready. With just 
a little more support, I can prove it. I can change the world.” Said the genius. 
“I gave you $150,000, Mr. Tesla. The world should have be changed by now.” Said Pierpont 
adjusting his racket. 
“Progress takes time. Vision takes courage. What I’m building... it’s not just communication 
— it’s energy. Limitless energy, sent through the air.” 
“And who, exactly, will be paying for this energy?” said J.P. Morgan. 
“Well, no one. That’s the point. It would be free. For all mankind.” 
“If there's no meter, there's no money. And if there's no money... there's no Morgan.”  
“You’re thinking of profits. I’m thinking of posterity! You could be remembered not as a 
banker — but as the man who lit the whole world!” 
“I already light the world, Mr. Tesla. With men who deliver.” 
“I have some other ideas they can bring you a lot of money” said Tesla